src/main/rules/GCI404/python/GCI404.asciidoc, before:

Use generator comprehension instead of list comprehension in for loop declaration.

Python generators resemble lazy lists from other programming languages: when iterated over, they compute their values on the fly. They lack some list behaviors (indexing, len method, ...) but are memory-efficient, as they do not store each of their values in memory, unlike lists. Thus, when declared in a for-loop declaration, list comprehensions can be safely replaced with generator comprehensions.

For more details on list comprehensions vs generator comprehensions, see https://docs.python.org/3/howto/functional.html#generator-expressions-and-list-comprehensions[Python documentation].

== Non compliant Code Example

[source,python]
----
for var in [var2 for var2 in range(100)]:
    ...

----

== Compliant Solution

[source,python]
----
for var in (var2 for var2 in range(100)):
    ...
----

== Relevance Analysis

The following results were obtained through local experiments.

Credit : https://github.com/AghilesAzzoug

=== Configuration

12th Gen Intel Core I7-12700H
16 Gb RAM (4800 Mhz)
Windows 11 OS version 22H2
Python 3.9.15
memory_profiler==0.61.0 (for RAM experiments)
codecarbon==2.1.4 (for CO2 emissions)

=== Context

The use of generator expressions instead of list comprehensions in for-loops declaration can save RAM usage. It has multiple benefits like reducing CO2 emissions as well as releasing memory constraints on the hardware.
Python generators resemble lazy lists from other programming languages: when iterated over, they compute their values on the fly. They lack some list behaviors (indexing, len method, ...) but are memory-efficient, as they do not store each of their values in memory, unlike lists. Thus, when declared in a for-loop declaration, list comprehensions can be safely replaced with generator expressions.
For more details on list comprehensions vs generator expressions, see Python documentation.


=== Impact Analysis


Local experiments* on list comprehensions vs generator comprehensions gives the following results on:

*1. Memory usage:*

image::memory.png[]

*2. Co2 Emissions*

Using CodeCarbon we get the following results:
https://codecarbon.io/

image::carbone.png[]

For both metrics, the bigger the list, the greater is the gain is.

=== Conclusion

Our analysis clearly demonstrates that replacing list comprehensions with generator expressions in Python for-loops offers substantial benefits in terms of both memory efficiency and environmental impact. As the data size increases, the advantages become increasingly significant.

=== References

Source: https://github.com/green-code-initiative/creedengo-rules-specifications/pull/152

https://docs.python.org/3/howto/functional.html#generator-expressions-and-list-comprehensions

Commit message:

additional information using previous studies

src/main/rules/GCI404/python/GCI404.asciidoc, after:

Use generator comprehension instead of list comprehension in for loop declaration.

Python generators resemble lazy lists from other programming languages: when iterated over, they compute their values on the fly. They lack some list behaviors (indexing, len method, ...) but are memory-efficient, as they do not store each of their values in memory, unlike lists. Thus, when declared in a for-loop declaration, list comprehensions can be safely replaced with generator comprehensions.

For more details on list comprehensions vs generator comprehensions, see https://docs.python.org/3/howto/functional.html#generator-expressions-and-list-comprehensions[Python documentation].

== Non compliant Code Example

[source,python]
----
for var in [var2 for var2 in range(100)]:
    ...

----

== Compliant Solution

[source,python]
----
for var in (var2 for var2 in range(100)):
    ...
----

== Relevance Analysis

The following results were obtained through local experiments.

Credit : https://github.com/AghilesAzzoug

=== Configuration

12th Gen Intel Core I7-12700H
16 Gb RAM (4800 Mhz)
Windows 11 OS version 22H2
Python 3.9.15
memory_profiler==0.61.0 (for RAM experiments)
codecarbon==2.1.4 (for CO2 emissions)

=== Context

The use of generator expressions instead of list comprehensions in for-loops declaration can save RAM usage. It has multiple benefits like reducing CO2 emissions as well as releasing memory constraints on the hardware.
Python generators resemble lazy lists from other programming languages: when iterated over, they compute their values on the fly. They lack some list behaviors (indexing, len method, ...) but are memory-efficient, as they do not store each of their values in memory, unlike lists. Thus, when declared in a for-loop declaration, list comprehensions can be safely replaced with generator expressions.
For more details on list comprehensions vs generator expressions, see Python documentation.


=== Impact Analysis


Local experiments* on list comprehensions vs generator comprehensions gives the following results on:

*1. Memory usage:*

image::memory.png[]

*2. Co2 Emissions*

Using CodeCarbon we get the following results:
https://codecarbon.io/

image::carbone.png[]

For both metrics, the bigger the list, the greater is the gain is.

=== Additional Study

A complementary benchmark from the Creedengo Challenge Issue #113 further supports the recommendation to avoid list comprehensions in loop declarations.

In a controlled containerized test:

The "bad" implementation using a list comprehension consumed: 4,493,365,500 bytes (~4.19 GB)

The "good" implementation using a generator expression consumed: 4,478,423,217 bytes (~4.17 GB)

Memory savings: 14,942,283 bytes (~14.24 MB)

Credit: https://github.com/green-code-initiative/creedengo-challenge/issues/113

=== Conclusion

Our analysis clearly demonstrates that replacing list comprehensions with generator expressions in Python for-loops offers substantial benefits in terms of both memory efficiency and environmental impact. As the data size increases, the advantages become increasingly significant.

=== References

Source: https://github.com/green-code-initiative/creedengo-rules-specifications/pull/152

https://docs.python.org/3/howto/functional.html#generator-expressions-and-list-comprehensions
