src/main/rules/GCI620/Python/GCI620.asciidoc, before:

Evaluating expressions that remain constant across loop iterations leads to redundant computations, increasing execution time and energy consumption. 
Such computations should be moved outside the loop to improve code performance and reduce environmental impact.

== Non Compliant Code Example

[source,python]
----
def process_data(data):
    x = (1, 2, 3, 4)
    
    results = []
    for i in range(10_000):
        n = len(x)  # Noncompliant: invariant expression computed in the loop
        results.append(n * i)
    
    return results
----

== Compliant Solution

[source,python]
----
def process_data(data):
    x = (1, 2, 3, 4)
    n = len(x)  # Compliant: computed once outside the loop

    results = []
    for i in range(10_000):
        results.append(n * i)

    return results
----

== Relevance Analysis

This rule applies to all Python code where loops perform repeated evaluations of expressions that yield the same result in every iteration.
These include calls to functions like `len()`, `math.pi`, or repeated property lookups. 
Avoiding such redundant operations improves both **runtime efficiency** and **carbon footprint**, especially in large-scale or iterative workloads.

=== Configuration

* Processor: Intel(R) Core(TM) i7-1165G7 @ 2.80GHz, 2800 MHz, 4 cores, 8 logical processors  
* RAM: 8 GB  
* CO2 Emissions Measurement: Using https://mlco2.github.io/codecarbon/[CodeCarbon]

=== Context

Two approaches were benchmarked:
- *Non-compliant:* The function `len(x)` is recomputed at every iteration.
- *Compliant:* The result of `len(x)` is stored once before the loop and reused.

=== Impact Analysis

image::results.png[]

== Conclusion

Avoiding invariant computations inside loops leads to better code efficiency and a measurable reduction in energy usage. This pattern is simple to detect and correct, and contributes meaningfully to greener Python practices.

== References

- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Loop-invariant_code_motion

Commit message:

Benchmark more build-in functions

src/main/rules/GCI620/Python/GCI620.asciidoc, after:

Evaluating expressions that remain constant across loop iterations leads to redundant computations, increasing execution time and energy consumption. 
Such computations should be moved outside the loop to improve code performance and reduce environmental impact.


== Non Compliant Code Example

[source,python]
----
def process_data(data):
    x = (1, 2, 3, 4)
    
    results = []
    for i in range(10_000):
        n = len(x)  # Noncompliant: invariant expression computed in the loop
        results.append(n * i)
    
    return results
----

== Compliant Solution

[source,python]
----
def process_data(data):
    x = (1, 2, 3, 4)
    n = len(x)  # Compliant: computed once outside the loop

    results = []
    for i in range(10_000):
        results.append(n * i)

    return results
----

== Relevance Analysis

This rule applies to all Python code where loops perform repeated evaluations of expressions that yield the same result in every iteration.

In our benchmark, we focused on measuring the impact of a representative set of functions, namely len(), sum(), sorted(), list(), set(), max(), and min().
Our implementation, however, goes beyond this set and currently supports detection for a broader range of functions, including len, sum, sorted, list, tuple, set, dict, max, and min. 
This can easily be extended to cover additional pure or deterministic functions in future iterations.



Avoiding such redundant operations improves both **runtime efficiency** and **carbon footprint**, especially in large-scale or iterative workloads.

=== Configuration

* Processor: Intel(R) Core(TM) i7-1165G7 @ 2.80GHz, 2800 MHz, 4 cores, 8 logical processors  
* RAM: 8 GB  
* CO2 Emissions Measurement: Using https://mlco2.github.io/codecarbon/[CodeCarbon]

=== Context

Two approaches were benchmarked:
- *Non-compliant:* The function is recomputed at every iteration.
- *Compliant:* The result of the function is stored once before the loop and reused.

*Benchmarked functions:* len(), sum(), sorted(), list(), set(), max(), and min()

=== Impact Analysis

image::results_summary.png[]

== Conclusion

Avoiding invariant computations inside loops leads to better code efficiency and a measurable reduction in energy usage. This pattern is simple to detect and correct, and contributes meaningfully to greener Python practices.

== References

- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Loop-invariant_code_motion
